[DOCS] Deploy Kyuubi engines on Kubernetes (#656)
NetEase/kyuubi: docs/deployment/on_kubernetes.md

</div>

# Deploy Kyuubi engines on Kubernetes

## Requirements

When you want to run Kyuubi's Spark SQL engines on Kubernetes, you'd better have cognition upon the following things.

* Read about [Running Spark On Kubernetes](http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/running-on-kubernetes.html)
* An active Kubernetes cluster
* [Kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/overview/)
* KubeConfig of the target cluster

## Configurations

### Master

Spark on Kubernetes config master by using a special format.

`k8s://https://<k8s-apiserver-host>:<k8s-apiserver-port>`

You can use cmd `kubectl cluster-info` to get api-server host and port.

> ### Spark Image

Reviewer: docker image

Kubernetes requires users to supply images that can be deployed into containers within pods.

Spark also ships within a `./bin/docker-image-tool.sh` script that can be used to build and publish the Docker images to use

> with the K8s backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes requires users to supply images that can be deployed into containers within pods.

```suggestion
Spark ships a `./bin/docker-image-tool.sh` script to build and publish the Docker images for running Spark applications on Kubernetes.

When deploying Kyuubi engines against a Kubernetes cluster, we need to set up the docker images in the Docker registry first.
```

Example usage is:

```shell
./bin/docker-image-tool.sh -r <repo> -t my-tag build
./bin/docker-image-tool.sh -r <repo> -t my-tag push
# To build docker image with specify openJdk 
./bin/docker-image-tool.sh -r <repo> -t my-tag -b java_image_tag=<openjdk:${java_image_tag}> build
# To build additional PySpark docker image
./bin/docker-image-tool.sh -r <repo> -t my-tag -p ./kubernetes/dockerfiles/spark/bindings/python/Dockerfile build
# To build additional SparkR docker image
./bin/docker-image-tool.sh -r <repo> -t my-tag -R ./kubernetes/dockerfiles/spark/bindings/R/Dockerfile build
```

> Of course, you can build self-made docker image by modifying Dockerfile and source code.

Reviewer: this is unnecessary

.

```shell
# create serviceAccount
kubectl create serviceaccount spark -n <namespace>
# binding role
kubectl create clusterrolebinding spark-role --clusterrole=edit --serviceaccount=<namespace>:spark --namespace=<namespace>
```

### Volumes

As it known to us all, Kubernetes can use configurations to mount volumes into driver and executor pods.

* hostPath: mounts a file or directory from the host node’s filesystem into a pod.
* emptyDir: an initially empty volume created when a pod is assigned to a node.
* nfs: mounts an existing NFS(Network File System) into a pod.
* persistentVolumeClaim: mounts a PersistentVolume into a pod.

Note: Please
see [the Security section of this document](http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/running-on-kubernetes.html#security) for
security issues related to volume mounts.

```shell
--conf spark.kubernetes.driver.volumes.[VolumeType].[VolumeName].mount.path=<mount path>
--conf spark.kubernetes.driver.volumes.[VolumeType].[VolumeName].mount.readOnly=<true|false>
--conf spark.kubernetes.driver.volumes.[VolumeType].[VolumeName].mount.subPath=<mount subPath>

> ```

Reviewer: this (--conf) is still for the SparkPi example? Kyuubi has not supported such type for arg so far

</div>

# Deploy Kyuubi engines on Kubernetes

## Requirements

When you want to run Kyuubi's Spark SQL engines on Kubernetes, you'd better have cognition upon the following things.

* Read about [Running Spark On Kubernetes](http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/running-on-kubernetes.html)
* An active Kubernetes cluster
* [Kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/overview/)
* KubeConfig of the target cluster

## Configurations

### Master

Spark on Kubernetes config master by using a special format.

> `k8s://https://<k8s-apiserver-host>:<k8s-apiserver-port>`

Reviewer: spark.master=...

Reviewer: maybe we should also have a section for deply-mode

# To build additional PySpark docker image
./bin/docker-image-tool.sh -r <repo> -t my-tag -p ./kubernetes/dockerfiles/spark/bindings/python/Dockerfile build
# To build additional SparkR docker image
./bin/docker-image-tool.sh -r <repo> -t my-tag -R ./kubernetes/dockerfiles/spark/bindings/R/Dockerfile build
```

Of course, you can build self-made docker image by modifying Dockerfile and source code.

### Test Cluster

You can use the shell code to test your cluster whether it is normal or not.

```shell
$SPARK_HOME/bin/spark-submit \
 --master k8s://https://<k8s-apiserver-host>:<k8s-apiserver-port> \
 --class org.apache.spark.examples.SparkPi \
 --conf spark.executor.instances=5 \
 --conf spark.dynamicAllocation.enabled=false \
 --conf spark.shuffle.service.enabled=false \
 --conf spark.kubernetes.container.image=<spark-image> \
 local://<path_to_examples.jar>
```

When running shell, you can use cmd `kubectl describe pod <podName>` to check if the information meets expectations.

### ServiceAccount

When use Client mode to submit application, spark driver use the kubeconfig to access api-service to create and watch

> executor pods.

Reviewer: inline

When use Cluster mode to submit application, spark driver pod use serviceAccount to access api-service to create and

> watch executor pods.

Reviewer: inline

In both cases, you need to figure out whether you have the permissions under the corresponding namespace. You can use

> following cmd to create serviceAccount (You need to have the kubeconfig which have the create serviceAccount permission)

Reviewer: inline

.

```shell
# create serviceAccount
kubectl create serviceaccount spark -n <namespace>
# binding role
kubectl create clusterrolebinding spark-role --clusterrole=edit --serviceaccount=<namespace>:spark --namespace=<namespace>
```

### Volumes

As it known to us all, Kubernetes can use configurations to mount volumes into driver and executor pods.

* hostPath: mounts a file or directory from the host node’s filesystem into a pod.
* emptyDir: an initially empty volume created when a pod is assigned to a node.
* nfs: mounts an existing NFS(Network File System) into a pod.
* persistentVolumeClaim: mounts a PersistentVolume into a pod.

Note: Please
see [the Security section of this document](http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/running-on-kubernetes.html#security) for
security issues related to volume mounts.

> ```shell

Reviewer: rm shell

spark.kubernetes.driver.volumes.<type>.<name>.options.path=<dist_path>
spark.kubernetes.driver.volumes.<type>.<name>.mount.path=<container_path>

spark.kubernetes.executor.volumes.<type>.<name>.options.path=<dist_path>
spark.kubernetes.executor.volumes.<type>.<name>.mount.path=<container_path>
```

Read [Using Kubernetes Volumes](http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/running-on-kubernetes.html#using-kubernetes-volumes)
for more about volumes.

### PodTemplateFile

Kubernetes allows defining pods from template files. Spark users can similarly use template files to define the driver
or executor pod configurations that Spark configurations do not support.

To do so, specify the spark properties `spark.kubernetes.driver.podTemplateFile` and
`spark.kubernetes.executor.podTemplateFile` to point to local files accessible to the spark-submit process.

### Other

> You can read [spark](http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/running-on-kubernetes.html) for more information about spark
> configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can read Spark's offical documentation for [Running on Kubernetes](http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/running-on-kubernetes.html) for more information.
```

</div>

> # Running Kyuubi on Kubernetes

Reviewer: We can rename this to `# Deploy Kyuubi engines on Kubernetes` to be more specific. we can change to yarn page too in this pr

## Requirements

When you want to run Kyuubi's Spark SQL engines on Kubernetes, you'd better have cognition upon the following things.

* Read about [Running Spark On Kubernetes](http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/running-on-kubernetes.html)

> * An active Kubernetes Cluster

Reviewer: cluster to be consistent with L16

> * KubeCtl

Reviewer 2: Kubectl

> * Kubectl

Reviewer: add a ref for it to the k8s doc?

* KubeConfig of the target cluster

## Configurations

### Test Cluster

> You can use the blew shell code to test your cluster whether it is normal or not.

Reviewer 2: typo: blew

```shell
$SPARK_HOME/bin/spark-submit \

>  --master K8s://https://<K8s-apiserver-host>:<K8s-apiserver-port> \

Reviewer: K8s or k8s or both ok?

Author: in this cmd, i think maybe `k8s` better

 --class org.apache.spark.examples.SparkPi \
 --conf spark.executor.instances=5 \
 --conf spark.dynamicAllocation.enabled=false \
 --conf spark.shuffle.service.enabled=false \
 --conf spark.kubernetes.container.image=<spark-image> \
 local://<path_to_examples.jar>
```

When running shell, you can use cmd `kubectl describe pod <podName>` to check if the information meets expectations.

### Master

Spark on Kubernetes config master by using a special format.

`K8s://https://<K8s-apiserver-host>:<K8s-apiserver-port>`

You can use cmd `kubectl cluster-info` to get api-server host and port.

### Spark Image

Kubernetes requires users to supply images that can be deployed into containers within pods.

> Spark also ships within a `./bin/docker-image-tool.sh` script that can be used to build and publish the Docker images to use

Reviewer: do we need to build the image and get the cluster-info first before telling users to run the example code?

Author: Will adjust Master and image before test

> Spark also ships within a bin/docker-image-tool.sh script that can be used to build and publish the Docker images to use

Reviewer 2: `bin/docker-image-tool.sh` should be quoted with `

> with the K8S backend.

Reviewer 2: `K8s`, K should be uppercase, s should be lowercase

# To build docker image with specify openJdk 
./bin/docker-image-tool.sh -r <repo> -t my-tag -b java_image_tag=<openjdk:${java_image_tag}> build
# To build additional PySpark docker image
./bin/docker-image-tool.sh -r <repo> -t my-tag -p ./kubernetes/dockerfiles/spark/bindings/python/Dockerfile build
# To build additional SparkR docker image
./bin/docker-image-tool.sh -r <repo> -t my-tag -R ./kubernetes/dockerfiles/spark/bindings/R/Dockerfile build
```

Of course, you can build self-made docker image by modifying Dockerfile and source code.

### ServiceAccount

When use Client mode to submit application, spark driver use the kubeconfig to access api-service to create and watch
executor pods.

When use Cluster mode to submit application, spark driver pod use serviceAccount to access api-service to create and
watch executor pods.

In both cases, you need to figure out whether you have the permissions under the corresponding namespace. You can use
following cmd to create serviceAccount (You need to have the kubeconfig which have the create serviceAccount permission)
.

```shell
#create serviceAccount
kubectl create serviceaccount spark -n <namespace>

> #binding role

Reviewer 2: nit: one space after #
